---
layout: post
title: Support for old Broswers
---

## Why bother about out dated broswers?

<p>
While the web emerges quicker and quicker every day to share all kind of media files in the most athestic pleasing way like
images that scale differently each time viewed, all kinds of video formats that are supported within the newest browsers, different
kinds of styling methods and much much more, some out dated browsers like IE8 do not even support media queries, the canvas tag or even
simple things like box-shadow. So why would you spend time as a web developer to support these kind of browsers?
</p>
<p>
The main question the designer has to ask himself is: Who is my target audience?
As old broswers like IE8 still hold a significantly market share of at least more than 15% it is definitely a question one should consider.
The reason why old browsers are still used is that older generations who got familiar to a certain type of browser or even had a hard time
getting used to one of these out dated browsers are unlikely to switch and upgrade to newer versions. And of course this is understandable.
If the internet and almost the current out dated browser already feels to flashy and fast for them, the newer browsers and web design 
might be just overwhelming for them. The content they look up might not even require a overly attractive, flashy design to get them back on their web site.
An update for these people might just mean to put energy into adaption for something they don't even see an advantage in.
</p>
<p>
But there are guidelines one can consider for designing a webpage. If big companies like gmail, facebook or twitter for example
drop certain browsers one can be sure that supporting these broswers is not necessary for the new design. Also unlike one might think
mobile is only used in 10% of the times. 90% of the times web pages are viewed over the desktop. That should be taken into consideration
while designing a web page. Of course mobile should not be left out, because it is growing every day, but it is important to keep in my mind
what the web page targets at and who will view it.
</p>
