---
layout: post
title: SMACCS
---

## SMACCS

<p>
The reason for using SMACCS (Scalable and Modular Architecture for CSS) is to stay as clean as possible with one's
CSS file(s). Especially, if a lot of people work on one project together, a clean CSS files help to finish the project faster
and also for different editors of the CSS file to stay on the same track. 
</p>

<p>
Classes for instance should be used instead of ID-selectors, if it comes down to styling the webpage with CSS, because within CSS 
there is almost no difference between a class and an ID selector. ID-selectors should have a primarly use for Javascript, because that's what Javascript is hooked to a lot.
Sub-classing Modules helps to move the Module to other page sections more easily, whereas IDs provide more styling specialization.
Another helpful SMACCS feature is the idea of having "State-classes" assigned to elements, because they show the state of element
components during run time and also highlight javascript dependent elements within the HTML/CSS code. The following code snipplet describes the idea of states:
{% highlight html %}
<div id="header" class="is-collapsed">
    <form>
        <div class="msg is-error">
            ....
        </div>
        <label ...
        <input ...
    </form>
</div>
{% endhighlight %}
</p>

<p>
As projects grow in size, the use of SMACCS gets more and more important, because CSS can easily end up being really messy, because unlike in programming environments that use C++, C*, C or other languages where clean code is crucial, styles can be easily modified and attached in CSS. Your CSS code might look really messy and it still functions and does the job, but for larger projects to work on or for others to read, it will eventually be impossible. Therefore the use of SMACCS or a personalized writing style to stay clean is key. Creating an own style sheet to reuse can also be an advantage.
</p>
